README.md, before:

# Neo4j GraphQL Library

💡 Welcome to the Monorepo for [Neo4j](https://neo4j.com/) + [GraphQL](https://graphql.org/).

![Neo4j + GraphQL](./docs/modules/ROOT/images/banner.png)

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://discord.gg/neo4j">
    <img alt="Discord" src="https://img.shields.io/discord/787399249741479977?logo=discord&logoColor=white">
  </a>
  <a href="https://community.neo4j.com/c/drivers-stacks/graphql/33">
    <img alt="Discourse users" src="https://img.shields.io/discourse/users?logo=discourse&server=https%3A%2F%2Fcommunity.neo4j.com">
  </a>
</p>

## Contributing

Want to contribute to `@neo4j/graphql`? See our [contributing guide](./docs/markdown/CONTRIBUTING.md) and [development guide](./docs/markdown/DEVELOPING.md) to get started!

## Links

1. [Documentation](https://neo4j.com/docs/graphql-manual/current/)
2. [Discord](https://discord.gg/neo4j)
3. [Examples](./examples)

## Navigating

This is a TypeScript Monorepo managed with [Yarn Workspaces](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/workspaces/). To learn more on how to; setup, test and contribute to Neo4j GraphQL then please visit the [Contributing Guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md).

1. [`@neo4j/graphql`](./packages/graphql) - Familiar GraphQL generation, for usage with an API such as [Apollo Server](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/)
2. [`@neo4j/graphql-ogm`](./packages/ogm) - Use GraphQL Type Definitions to drive interactions with the database

## Media

Blogs, talks and other content surrounding Neo4j GraphQL. Sign up for [NODES 2021](https://neo4j.brand.live/c/2021nodes-live) to view even more Neo4j GraphQL content.

1. [Neo4j and GraphQL The Past, Present and Future](https://youtu.be/sZ-eBznM71M)
2. [Securing Your Graph With Neo4j GraphQL](https://medium.com/neo4j/securing-your-graph-with-neo4j-graphql-91a2d7b08631)
3. [Best Practices For Using Cypher With GraphQL](https://youtu.be/YceBpk01Gxs)
4. [Migrating To The Official Neo4j GraphQL Library](https://youtu.be/4_rp1ikvFKc)
5. [Announcing the Stable Release of the Official Neo4j GraphQL Library 1.0.0](https://medium.com/neo4j/announcing-the-stable-release-of-the-official-neo4j-graphql-library-1-0-0-6cdd30cd40b)
6. [Announcing the Neo4j GraphQL Library Beta Release](https://medium.com/neo4j/announcing-the-neo4j-graphql-library-beta-99ae8541bbe7)

## Hiring

Love this project and want to work on it full-time? We're hiring!

We're currently looking for backend, full-stack and DevOps engineers to join the GraphQL Team at Neo4j.

Search for "GraphQL Team" at https://neo4j.com/careers/ or [drop us an email](mailto:team-graphql@neo4j.com) if you're interested.

Commit message:

Renovate automerge and labelling (#704)
* Reconfigure Renovate, and add package tests to pull request runs to increase confidence

* Manage labels using Renovate

* Document master and dev in README

* Add baseBranches back in

README.md, after:

# Neo4j GraphQL Library

💡 Welcome to the Monorepo for [Neo4j](https://neo4j.com/) + [GraphQL](https://graphql.org/).

![Neo4j + GraphQL](./docs/modules/ROOT/images/banner.png)

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://discord.gg/neo4j">
    <img alt="Discord" src="https://img.shields.io/discord/787399249741479977?logo=discord&logoColor=white">
  </a>
  <a href="https://community.neo4j.com/c/drivers-stacks/graphql/33">
    <img alt="Discourse users" src="https://img.shields.io/discourse/users?logo=discourse&server=https%3A%2F%2Fcommunity.neo4j.com">
  </a>
</p>

## Contributing

The default branch for this repository is `dev`, which contains changes for the next
release. This is what you should base your work on if you want to make changes.

Want to check out the code from the last release? Checkout `master` instead, which
is only ever merged into on releases.

Want to contribute to `@neo4j/graphql`? See our [contributing guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md)
and [development guide](./docs/contributing/DEVELOPING.md) to get started!

## Links

1. [Documentation](https://neo4j.com/docs/graphql-manual/current/)
2. [Discord](https://discord.gg/neo4j)
3. [Examples](./examples)

## Navigating

This is a TypeScript Monorepo managed with [Yarn Workspaces](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/workspaces/).
To learn more on how to; setup, test and contribute to Neo4j GraphQL then please
visit the [Contributing Guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md).

1. [`@neo4j/graphql`](./packages/graphql) - Familiar GraphQL generation, for usage
with an API such as [Apollo Server](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/)
2. [`@neo4j/graphql-ogm`](./packages/ogm) - Use GraphQL Type Definitions to drive
interactions with the database

## Media

Blogs, talks and other content surrounding Neo4j GraphQL. Sign up for
[NODES 2021](https://neo4j.brand.live/c/2021nodes-live) to view even more Neo4j
GraphQL content.

1. [Neo4j and GraphQL The Past, Present and Future](https://youtu.be/sZ-eBznM71M)
2. [Securing Your Graph With Neo4j GraphQL](https://medium.com/neo4j/securing-your-graph-with-neo4j-graphql-91a2d7b08631)
3. [Best Practices For Using Cypher With GraphQL](https://youtu.be/YceBpk01Gxs)
4. [Migrating To The Official Neo4j GraphQL Library](https://youtu.be/4_rp1ikvFKc)
5. [Announcing the Stable Release of the Official Neo4j GraphQL Library 1.0.0](https://medium.com/neo4j/announcing-the-stable-release-of-the-official-neo4j-graphql-library-1-0-0-6cdd30cd40b)
6. [Announcing the Neo4j GraphQL Library Beta Release](https://medium.com/neo4j/announcing-the-neo4j-graphql-library-beta-99ae8541bbe7)

## Hiring

Love this project and want to work on it full-time? We're hiring!

We're currently looking for backend, full-stack and DevOps engineers to join the
GraphQL Team at Neo4j.

Search for "GraphQL Team" at <https://neo4j.com/careers/> or
[drop us an email](mailto:team-graphql@neo4j.com) if you're interested.
