docs/asciidoc/type-definitions/unions-and-interfaces.adoc, before:

[[type-definitions-unions-and-interfaces]]
= Unions and Interfaces

Unions and interfaces are abstract GraphQL types that enable a schema field to return one of multiple object types.

[[type-definitions-unions-and-interfaces-union-types]]
== Union Types

The Neo4j GraphQL Library supports the use of unions on relationship fields. For example, the following schema defines a `User` type, that has a relationship `HAS_CONTENT`, of type `[Content]`. `Content` is of type `union` representing either a `Blog` or a `Post`.

[source, graphql]
----
union Content = Blog | Post

type Blog {
    title: String
    posts: [Post] @relationship(type: "HAS_POST", direction: OUT)
}

type Post {
    content: String
}

type User {
    name: String
    content: [Content] @relationship(type: "HAS_CONTENT", direction: OUT)
}
----

Below you can find some examples of how queries and mutations work with this example.

[[type-definitions-unions-and-interfaces-union-types-querying]]
=== Querying a union

Which union members are returned by a Query are dictated by the `where` filter applied.

For example, the following will return all user content, and you will specifically get the title of each blog.

[source, graphql]
----
query GetUsersWithBlogs {
    users {
        name
        content {
            ... on Blog {
                title
            }
        }
    }
}
----

Whilst the query below will only return blogs. We could for instance use a filter to check that the title is not null to essentially return all blogs:

[source, graphql]
----
query GetUsersWithAllContent {
    users {
        name
        content(where: { Blog: { title_NOT: null }}) {
            ... on Blog {
                title
            }
        }
    }
}
----

Conceptually, this maps to the `WHERE` clauses of the subquery unions in Cypher. Going back to the first example with no `where` argument, each subquery has a similar structure:

[source, cypher]
----
CALL {
    WITH this
    OPTIONAL MATCH (this)-[has_content:HAS_CONTENT]->(blog:Blog)
    RETURN { __resolveType: "Blog", title: blog.title }
UNION
    WITH this
    OPTIONAL MATCH (this)-[has_content:HAS_CONTENT]->(journal:Post)
    RETURN { __resolveType: "Post" }
}
----

Now if we were to leave both subqueries and add a `WHERE` clause for blogs, it would look like this:

[source, cypher]
----
CALL {
    WITH this
    OPTIONAL MATCH (this)-[has_content:HAS_CONTENT]->(blog:Blog)
    WHERE blog.title IS NOT NULL
    RETURN { __resolveType: "Blog", title: blog.title }
UNION
    WITH this
    OPTIONAL MATCH (this)-[has_content:HAS_CONTENT]->(journal:Post)
    RETURN { __resolveType: "Post" }
}
----

As you can see, the subqueries are now "unbalanced", which could result in massive overfetching of `Post` nodes.

So, when a `where` argument is passed in, we only include union members which are in the `where` object, so it is essentially acting as a logical OR gate, different from the rest of our `where` arguments:

[source, cypher]
----
CALL {
    WITH this
    OPTIONAL MATCH (this)-[has_content:HAS_CONTENT]->(blog:Blog)
    WHERE blog.title IS NOT NULL
    RETURN { __resolveType: "Blog", title: blog.title }
}
----

=== Creating a union

The below mutation creates the user and their content:

[source, graphql]
----
mutation CreateUserAndContent {
    createUsers(
        input: [
            {
                name: "Dan"
                content: {
                    Blog: {
                        create: [
                            {
                                node: {
                                    title: "My Cool Blog"
                                    posts: {
                                        create: [
                                            {
                                                node: {
                                                    content: "My Cool Post"
                                                }
                                            }
                                        ]
                                    }
                                }
                            }
                        ]
                    }
                }
            }
        ]
    ) {
        users {
            name
        }
    }
}

----


== Interface Types

Using interface types will give you no database support, therefore there is no support for querying, updating, deleting, filtering. But instead used as a language feature to safeguard your schema. Great for when dealing with repetitive or large schemas you can essentially put "The side railings up".

Commit message:

Change documentation for interfaces, highlighting that they are used for relationship properties

docs/asciidoc/type-definitions/unions-and-interfaces.adoc, after:

[[type-definitions-unions-and-interfaces]]
= Unions and Interfaces

Unions and interfaces are abstract GraphQL types that enable a schema field to return one of multiple object types.

[[type-definitions-unions-and-interfaces-union-types]]
== Union Types

The Neo4j GraphQL Library supports the use of unions on relationship fields. For example, the following schema defines a `User` type, that has a relationship `HAS_CONTENT`, of type `[Content]`. `Content` is of type `union` representing either a `Blog` or a `Post`.

[source, graphql]
----
union Content = Blog | Post

type Blog {
    title: String
    posts: [Post] @relationship(type: "HAS_POST", direction: OUT)
}

type Post {
    content: String
}

type User {
    name: String
    content: [Content] @relationship(type: "HAS_CONTENT", direction: OUT)
}
----

Below you can find some examples of how queries and mutations work with this example.

[[type-definitions-unions-and-interfaces-union-types-querying]]
=== Querying a union

Which union members are returned by a Query are dictated by the `where` filter applied.

For example, the following will return all user content, and you will specifically get the title of each blog.

[source, graphql]
----
query GetUsersWithBlogs {
    users {
        name
        content {
            ... on Blog {
                title
            }
        }
    }
}
----

Whilst the query below will only return blogs. We could for instance use a filter to check that the title is not null to essentially return all blogs:

[source, graphql]
----
query GetUsersWithAllContent {
    users {
        name
        content(where: { Blog: { title_NOT: null }}) {
            ... on Blog {
                title
            }
        }
    }
}
----

Conceptually, this maps to the `WHERE` clauses of the subquery unions in Cypher. Going back to the first example with no `where` argument, each subquery has a similar structure:

[source, cypher]
----
CALL {
    WITH this
    OPTIONAL MATCH (this)-[has_content:HAS_CONTENT]->(blog:Blog)
    RETURN { __resolveType: "Blog", title: blog.title }
UNION
    WITH this
    OPTIONAL MATCH (this)-[has_content:HAS_CONTENT]->(journal:Post)
    RETURN { __resolveType: "Post" }
}
----

Now if we were to leave both subqueries and add a `WHERE` clause for blogs, it would look like this:

[source, cypher]
----
CALL {
    WITH this
    OPTIONAL MATCH (this)-[has_content:HAS_CONTENT]->(blog:Blog)
    WHERE blog.title IS NOT NULL
    RETURN { __resolveType: "Blog", title: blog.title }
UNION
    WITH this
    OPTIONAL MATCH (this)-[has_content:HAS_CONTENT]->(journal:Post)
    RETURN { __resolveType: "Post" }
}
----

As you can see, the subqueries are now "unbalanced", which could result in massive overfetching of `Post` nodes.

So, when a `where` argument is passed in, we only include union members which are in the `where` object, so it is essentially acting as a logical OR gate, different from the rest of our `where` arguments:

[source, cypher]
----
CALL {
    WITH this
    OPTIONAL MATCH (this)-[has_content:HAS_CONTENT]->(blog:Blog)
    WHERE blog.title IS NOT NULL
    RETURN { __resolveType: "Blog", title: blog.title }
}
----

=== Creating a union

The below mutation creates the user and their content:

[source, graphql]
----
mutation CreateUserAndContent {
    createUsers(
        input: [
            {
                name: "Dan"
                content: {
                    Blog: {
                        create: [
                            {
                                node: {
                                    title: "My Cool Blog"
                                    posts: {
                                        create: [
                                            {
                                                node: {
                                                    content: "My Cool Post"
                                                }
                                            }
                                        ]
                                    }
                                }
                            }
                        ]
                    }
                }
            }
        ]
    ) {
        users {
            name
        }
    }
}

----


== Interface Types

At the moment, the only support that the Neo4j GraphQL Library offers for interfaces is in the definition of relationship properties.

Beyond this, feel free to use them in your implementation of node types, however the library will offer no database support for these - it will essentially ignore them and focus only on the implementing GraphQL object types.
