docs/modules/ROOT/pages/directives.adoc, before:

[[directives]]
= Directives

== `@auth`

The `@auth` directive is used to define complex fine-grained and role-based access control for object types and fields.

Reference: xref::auth/auth-directive.adoc[`@auth` directive]

== `@coalesce`

The `@coalesce` directive exposes a mechanism for querying against non-existent, `null` values on a node.

Reference: xref::type-definitions/default-values.adoc#type-definitions-default-values-coalesce[`@coalesce`]

== `@cypher`

The `@cypher` directive overrides field resolution (including `Query` and `Mutation` fields), instead resolving with the specified Cypher.

Reference: xref::type-definitions/cypher.adoc[`@cypher` directive]

== `@default`

The `@default` directive allows for the setting of a default value for a field on object creation.

Reference: xref::type-definitions/default-values.adoc#type-definitions-default-values-default[`@default`]

== `@exclude`

The `@exclude` directive is used on object types to instruct them to be skipped during Query and Mutation generation.

Reference: xref::type-definitions/access-control.adoc#type-definitions-access-control-exclude[`@exclude`]

== `@id`

The `@id` directive marks a field as the unique ID for an object type, and allows for autogeneration of IDs.

Reference: xref::type-definitions/autogeneration.adoc#type-definitions-autogeneration-id[`@id`]

== `@ignore`

The `@ignore` directive ignores a field, and it will need an alternative mechanism for resolution.

Reference: xref::type-definitions/access-control.adoc#type-definitions-access-control-ignore[`@ignore`]

== `@private`

The `@private` directive protects fields which should only be available through the xref::ogm/index.adoc[OGM].

Reference: xref::ogm/private.adoc[`@private` Directive]

== `@readonly`

The `@readonly` directive marks fields as read-only.

Reference: xref::type-definitions/access-control.adoc#type-definitions-access-control-readonly[`@readonly`]

== `@relationship`

The `@relationship` directive is used to configure relationships between object types.

Reference: xref::type-definitions/relationships.adoc[Relationships]

== `@relationshipProperties`

Optional syntactic sugar to help you distinguish between interfaces which are used for relationship properties, and otherwise.

Can only be used on interfaces, as per its definition:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
"""Syntactic sugar to help differentiate between interfaces for relationship properties, and otherwise."""
directive @relationshipProperties on INTERFACE
----

== `@timestamp`

The `@timestamp` directive flags fields to be used to store timestamps on create/update events.

Reference: xref::type-definitions/autogeneration.adoc#type-definitions-autogeneration-timestamp[`@timestamp`]

== `@writeonly`

The `@writeonly` directive marks fields as write-only.

Reference: xref::type-definitions/access-control.adoc#type-definitions-access-control-writeonly[`@writeonly`]

== `@alias`

The `@alias` directive will map a GraphQL schema field to a Neo4j property on a node or relationship.

Reference: xref::type-definitions/database-mapping.adoc#type-definitions-alias[`@alias`]

== `@node`

The `@node` directive is used to specify the configuration of a GraphQL object type which represents a Neo4j node.

Reference: xref::type-definitions/database-mapping.adoc#type-definitions-node[`@node`]

Commit message:

Add definition and basic docs for `@unique` directive

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/directives.adoc, after:

[[directives]]
= Directives

== `@auth`

The `@auth` directive is used to define complex fine-grained and role-based access control for object types and fields.

Reference: xref::auth/auth-directive.adoc[`@auth` directive]

== `@coalesce`

The `@coalesce` directive exposes a mechanism for querying against non-existent, `null` values on a node.

Reference: xref::type-definitions/default-values.adoc#type-definitions-default-values-coalesce[`@coalesce`]

== `@cypher`

The `@cypher` directive overrides field resolution (including `Query` and `Mutation` fields), instead resolving with the specified Cypher.

Reference: xref::type-definitions/cypher.adoc[`@cypher` directive]

== `@default`

The `@default` directive allows for the setting of a default value for a field on object creation.

Reference: xref::type-definitions/default-values.adoc#type-definitions-default-values-default[`@default`]

== `@exclude`

The `@exclude` directive is used on object types to instruct them to be skipped during Query and Mutation generation.

Reference: xref::type-definitions/access-control.adoc#type-definitions-access-control-exclude[`@exclude`]

== `@id`

The `@id` directive marks a field as the unique ID for an object type, and allows for autogeneration of IDs.

Reference: xref::type-definitions/autogeneration.adoc#type-definitions-autogeneration-id[`@id`]

== `@ignore`

The `@ignore` directive ignores a field, and it will need an alternative mechanism for resolution.

Reference: xref::type-definitions/access-control.adoc#type-definitions-access-control-ignore[`@ignore`]

== `@node`

The `@node` directive is used to specify the configuration of a GraphQL object type which represents a Neo4j node.

Reference: xref::type-definitions/database-mapping.adoc#type-definitions-node[`@node`]

== `@private`

The `@private` directive protects fields which should only be available through the xref::ogm/index.adoc[OGM].

Reference: xref::ogm/private.adoc[`@private` Directive]

== `@readonly`

The `@readonly` directive marks fields as read-only.

Reference: xref::type-definitions/access-control.adoc#type-definitions-access-control-readonly[`@readonly`]

== `@relationship`

The `@relationship` directive is used to configure relationships between object types.

Reference: xref::type-definitions/relationships.adoc[Relationships]

== `@relationshipProperties`

Optional syntactic sugar to help you distinguish between interfaces which are used for relationship properties, and otherwise.

Can only be used on interfaces, as per its definition:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
"""Syntactic sugar to help differentiate between interfaces for relationship properties, and otherwise."""
directive @relationshipProperties on INTERFACE
----

== `@timestamp`

The `@timestamp` directive flags fields to be used to store timestamps on create/update events.

Reference: xref::type-definitions/autogeneration.adoc#type-definitions-autogeneration-timestamp[`@timestamp`]

== `@unique`

The `@unique` directive indicates that there should be a uniqueness constraint in the database for the fields that it is applied to.

== `@writeonly`

The `@writeonly` directive marks fields as write-only.

Reference: xref::type-definitions/access-control.adoc#type-definitions-access-control-writeonly[`@writeonly`]
