docs/modules/ROOT/pages/type-definitions/autogeneration.adoc, before:

[[type-definitions-autogeneration]]
= Autogeneration

[[type-definitions-autogeneration-id]]
== `@id`

This directive marks a field as the unique identifier for an object type, and by default enables autogenerated of IDs for the field.

The format of each generated ID is a UUID generated by https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/functions/scalar/#functions-randomuuid[randomUUID() function].

If autogeneration for an ID field is enabled, the field will not be present in input types for Mutations.

=== Definition

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
"""Indicates that the field is the unique identifier for the object type, and additionally enables the autogeneration of IDs."""
directive @id(autogenerate: Boolean! = true) on FIELD_DEFINITION
----

=== Usage

The following two type definitions are equivalent in that they both specify an ID which will benefit from autogeneration:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type User {
    id: ID! @id
    username: String!
}
----

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type User {
    id: ID! @id(autogenerate: true)
    username: String!
}
----

The following type definition is currently a no-op, as the `@id` directive only provides autogeneration as it stands:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type User {
    id: ID! @id(autogenerate: false)
    username: String!
}
----

[[type-definitions-autogeneration-timestamp]]
== `@timestamp`

=== Timestamps

This directive marks a field as a timestamp field, which will be used to store timestamps of when particular events happen through the GraphQL API.

> These events are triggered and stored at the GraphQL API layer. Events happening in your database through other routes will not trigger updates of these timestamps.

=== Definition

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
enum TimestampOperation {
    CREATE
    UPDATE
}

"""Instructs @neo4j/graphql to generate timestamps on particular events, which will be available as the value of the specified field."""
directive @timestamp(
    """Which events to generate timestamps on. Defaults to both create and update."""
    operations: [TimestampOperation!]! = [CREATE, UPDATE]
) on FIELD_DEFINITION
----

=== Usage

The following type definition has two individual fields to store the timestamps of create and update events.

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type User {
    createdAt: DateTime! @timestamp(operations: [CREATE])
    updatedAt: DateTime! @timestamp(operations: [UPDATE])
}
----

The following two equivalent type definitions have a single field storing the event timestamp of the last create or update:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type User {
    lastModified: DateTime! @timestamp
}
----

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type User {
    lastModified: DateTime! @timestamp(operations: [CREATE, UPDATE])
}
----

Commit message:

Add unique node property constraints for `@id` directive, and throw error when `@unique` used on interface field

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/type-definitions/autogeneration.adoc, after:

[[type-definitions-autogeneration]]
= Autogeneration

[[type-definitions-autogeneration-id]]
== `@id`

This directive marks a field as the unique identifier for an object type, and by default; enables autogeneration of IDs for the field and implies that a unique node property constraint should exist for the property.

The format of each generated ID is a UUID generated by https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/functions/scalar/#functions-randomuuid[randomUUID() function].

If autogeneration for an ID field is enabled, the field will not be present in input types for Mutations.

See xref::type-definitions/constraints.adoc#type-definitions-constraints-unique[Unique node property constraints] for details on how to assert the existence of the necessary database constraints for relevant fields.

=== Definition

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
"""Indicates that the field is an identifier for the object type. By default; autogenerated, and has a unique node property constraint in the database."""
directive @id(
    autogenerate: Boolean! = true
    unique: Boolean! = true
) on FIELD_DEFINITION
----

=== Usage

The following two type definitions are equivalent in that they both specify an ID which will benefit from autogeneration:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type User {
    id: ID! @id
    username: String!
}
----

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type User {
    id: ID! @id(autogenerate: true)
    username: String!
}
----

The following type definition is currently a no-op, as the `@id` directive only provides autogeneration as it stands:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type User {
    id: ID! @id(autogenerate: false)
    username: String!
}
----

You can disable the mapping of the `@id` directive to a unique node property constraint by setting the `unique` argument to `false`:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type User {
    id: ID! @id(unique: false)
    username: String!
}
----

[[type-definitions-autogeneration-timestamp]]
== `@timestamp`

=== Timestamps

This directive marks a field as a timestamp field, which will be used to store timestamps of when particular events happen through the GraphQL API.

> These events are triggered and stored at the GraphQL API layer. Events happening in your database through other routes will not trigger updates of these timestamps.

=== Definition

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
enum TimestampOperation {
    CREATE
    UPDATE
}

"""Instructs @neo4j/graphql to generate timestamps on particular events, which will be available as the value of the specified field."""
directive @timestamp(
    """Which events to generate timestamps on. Defaults to both create and update."""
    operations: [TimestampOperation!]! = [CREATE, UPDATE]
) on FIELD_DEFINITION
----

=== Usage

The following type definition has two individual fields to store the timestamps of create and update events.

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type User {
    createdAt: DateTime! @timestamp(operations: [CREATE])
    updatedAt: DateTime! @timestamp(operations: [UPDATE])
}
----

The following two equivalent type definitions have a single field storing the event timestamp of the last create or update:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type User {
    lastModified: DateTime! @timestamp
}
----

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type User {
    lastModified: DateTime! @timestamp(operations: [CREATE, UPDATE])
}
----
