docs/modules/ROOT/pages/type-definitions/types.adoc, before:

[[type-definitions-types]]
= Types

Neo4j GraphQL supports all of the default GraphQL https://graphql.org/learn/schema/#scalar-types[scalar types] as well as additional scalar and object types specific to the Neo4j database.

== Int

One of the default GraphQL scalar types. Supports up to 53-bit values - see xref::type-definitions/types.adoc[`BigInt`] for 64-bit value support.

== Float

One of the default GraphQL scalar types.

== String

One of the default GraphQL scalar types.

== Boolean

One of the default GraphQL scalar types.

== ID

One of the default GraphQL scalar types. Stored as a string in the database and always returned as a string.

[[type-definitions-types-bigint]]
== `BigInt`

Supports up to 64 bit integers, serialized as strings in variables and in data responses. Shares the same xref::filtering.adoc[Numerical operators] as the other numeric types.

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type File {
    size: BigInt
}
----

Can be passed as a number (does not need quotes) when used directly in a query or mutation:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
query {
    files(where: { size: 9223372036854775807 }) {
        size
    }
}
----

[[type-definitions-types-temporal]]
== Temporal Types

=== `DateTime`

ISO datetime string stored as a https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/functions/temporal/#functions-datetime[datetime] temporal type.

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type User {
    createdAt: DateTime
}
----

=== `Date`

"yyyy-mm-dd" date string stored as a https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/functions/temporal/#functions-date[date] temporal type.

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type Movie {
    releaseDate: Date
}
----

=== `Duration`

ISO 8601 duration string allowing for basic date time format stored as a https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/functions/temporal/duration/[Duration] type.

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type Movie {
    runningTime: Duration!
}
----

[[type-definitions-types-spatial]]
== Spatial Types

Neo4j GraphQL spatial types translate to spatial values stored using https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/syntax/spatial[point] in the database. The use of either of these types in a GraphQL schema will automatically introduce the types needed to run queries and mutations relevant to these spatial types.

[[type-definitions-types-point]]
=== `Point`

The `Point` type is used to describe the two https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/syntax/spatial/#cypher-spatial-crs-geographic[Geographic coordinate reference systems] supported by Neo4j.

In order to use it in your schema, you quite simply add a field with a type `Point` to any type or types in schema, like the following:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type TypeWithPoint {
    location: Point!
}
----

Once this has been done, the `Point` type will be automatically added to your schema, in addition to all of the input and output types you will need to query and manipulate spatial types through your API.

The rest of the documentation under this heading is documenting all of those automatically generated types and how to use them.

==== Type definition

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type Point {
    latitude: Float!
    longitude: Float!
    height: Float
}
----

==== Queries and Mutations

Due to the fact that `Point` is an object type, it has an additional type for input in queries and mutations. However, this input type has the same shape as the object type:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
input PointInput {
    latitude: Float!
    longitude: Float!
    height: Float
}
----

===== Query

For example, you can query for a `User` with an exact location:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
query Users($longitude: Float!, $latitude: Float!) {
    users(where: { location: { longitude: $longitude, latitude: $latitude } }) {
        name
        location {
            longitude
            latitude
        }
    }
}
----

===== Mutation

An example of creating a `User` with a location is as follows:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
mutation CreateUsers($name: String!, $longitude: Float!, $latitude: Float!) {
    createUsers(input: [{ name: $name, location: { longitude: $longitude, latitude: $latitude } }]) {
        users {
            name
            location {
                longitude
                latitude
            }
        }
    }
}
----

==== Filtering

In addition to the xref::filtering.adoc[Numerical operators], the `Point` type has an additional `_DISTANCE` filter. All of the filters take the following type as an argument:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
input PointDistance {
    point: Point!
    distance: Float!
}
----

In essence, each of the filters mean the following:

* `_LT`: Checks that the specified `point` field is less than the `distance` away in meters from the `Point` being compared against.
* `_LTE`: Checks that the specified `point` field is less than or equal to the `distance` away in meters from the `Point` being compared against.
* `_DISTANCE`: Checks that the specified `point` field is the exact `distance` away in meters from the `Point` being compared against.
* `_GTE`: Checks that the specified `point` field is greater than the `distance` away in meters from the `Point` being compared against.
* `_GT`: Checks that the specified `point` field is greater than or equal to the `distance` away in meters from the `Point` being compared against.

In practice, you can construct queries such as the following which will find all users within a 5km (5000m) radius of a `Point`:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
query CloseByUsers($longitude: Float!, $latitude: Float!) {
    users(where: { location_LTE: { point: { longitude: $longitude, latitude: $latitude }, distance: 5000 } }) {
        name
        location {
            longitude
            latitude
        }
    }
}
----

[[type-definitions-types-cartesian-point]]
=== `CartesianPoint`

The `CartesianPoint` type is used to describe the two https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/syntax/spatial/#cypher-spatial-crs-cartesian[Cartesian coordinate reference systems] supported by Neo4j.

In order to use it in your schema, you quite simply add a field with a type `CartesianPoint` to any type or types in schema, like the following:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type TypeWithCartesianPoint {
    location: CartesianPoint!
}
----

Once this has been done, the `CartesianPoint` type will be automatically added to your schema, in addition to all of the input and output types you will need to query and manipulate spatial types through your API.

The rest of the documentation under this heading is documenting all of those automatically generated types and how to use them.

==== Type definition

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type CartesianPoint {
    x: Float!
    y: Float!
    z: Float
}
----

==== Queries and Mutations

Due to the fact that `CartesianPoint` is an object type, it has an additional type for input in queries and mutations. However, this input type has the same shape as the object type:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
input CartesianPointInput {
    x: Float!
    y: Float!
    z: Float
}
----

==== Filtering

In addition to the xref::filtering.adoc[Numerical operators], the `CartesianPoint` type has an additional `_DISTANCE` filter. All of the filters take the following type as an argument:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
input CartesianPointDistance {
    point: CartesianPoint!
    distance: Float!
}
----

In essence, each of the filters mean the following:

* `_LT`: Checks that the specified `point` field is less than the `distance` away from the `CartesianPoint` being compared against, in the units used to specify the points.
* `_LTE`: Checks that the specified `point` field is less than or equal to the `distance` away from the `CartesianPoint` being compared against, in the units used to specify the points.
* `_DISTANCE`: Checks that the specified `point` field is the exact `distance` away from the `CartesianPoint` being compared against, in the units used to specify the points.
* `_GTE`: Checks that the specified `point` field is greater than the `distance` away from the `CartesianPoint` being compared against, in the units used to specify the points.
* `_GT`: Checks that the specified `point` field is greater than or equal to the `distance` away from the `CartesianPoint` being compared against, in the units used to specify the points.

Commit message:

update: documentation about decimal values

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/type-definitions/types.adoc, after:

[[type-definitions-types]]
= Types

Neo4j GraphQL supports all of the default GraphQL https://graphql.org/learn/schema/#scalar-types[scalar types] as well as additional scalar and object types specific to the Neo4j database.

== Int

One of the default GraphQL scalar types. Supports up to 53-bit values - see xref::type-definitions/types.adoc[`BigInt`] for 64-bit value support.

== Float

One of the default GraphQL scalar types.

== String

One of the default GraphQL scalar types.

== Boolean

One of the default GraphQL scalar types.

== ID

One of the default GraphQL scalar types. Stored as a string in the database and always returned as a string.

[[type-definitions-types-bigint]]
== `BigInt`

Supports up to 64 bit integers, serialized as strings in variables and in data responses. Shares the same xref::filtering.adoc[Numerical operators] as the other numeric types.

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type File {
    size: BigInt
}
----

Can be passed as a number (does not need quotes) when used directly in a query or mutation:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
query {
    files(where: { size: 9223372036854775807 }) {
        size
    }
}
----

[[type-definitions-types-temporal]]
== Temporal Types

=== `DateTime`

ISO datetime string stored as a https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/functions/temporal/#functions-datetime[datetime] temporal type.

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type User {
    createdAt: DateTime
}
----

=== `Date`

"yyyy-mm-dd" date string stored as a https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/functions/temporal/#functions-date[date] temporal type.

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type Movie {
    releaseDate: Date
}
----

=== `Duration`

ISO 8601 duration string allowing for basic date time format stored as a https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/functions/temporal/duration/[Duration] type.

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type Movie {
    runningTime: Duration!
}
----

_Note:_ Decimal values are not currently accepted on `[YMWD]`

[[type-definitions-types-spatial]]
== Spatial Types

Neo4j GraphQL spatial types translate to spatial values stored using https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/syntax/spatial[point] in the database. The use of either of these types in a GraphQL schema will automatically introduce the types needed to run queries and mutations relevant to these spatial types.

[[type-definitions-types-point]]
=== `Point`

The `Point` type is used to describe the two https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/syntax/spatial/#cypher-spatial-crs-geographic[Geographic coordinate reference systems] supported by Neo4j.

In order to use it in your schema, you quite simply add a field with a type `Point` to any type or types in schema, like the following:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type TypeWithPoint {
    location: Point!
}
----

Once this has been done, the `Point` type will be automatically added to your schema, in addition to all of the input and output types you will need to query and manipulate spatial types through your API.

The rest of the documentation under this heading is documenting all of those automatically generated types and how to use them.

==== Type definition

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type Point {
    latitude: Float!
    longitude: Float!
    height: Float
}
----

==== Queries and Mutations

Due to the fact that `Point` is an object type, it has an additional type for input in queries and mutations. However, this input type has the same shape as the object type:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
input PointInput {
    latitude: Float!
    longitude: Float!
    height: Float
}
----

===== Query

For example, you can query for a `User` with an exact location:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
query Users($longitude: Float!, $latitude: Float!) {
    users(where: { location: { longitude: $longitude, latitude: $latitude } }) {
        name
        location {
            longitude
            latitude
        }
    }
}
----

===== Mutation

An example of creating a `User` with a location is as follows:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
mutation CreateUsers($name: String!, $longitude: Float!, $latitude: Float!) {
    createUsers(input: [{ name: $name, location: { longitude: $longitude, latitude: $latitude } }]) {
        users {
            name
            location {
                longitude
                latitude
            }
        }
    }
}
----

==== Filtering

In addition to the xref::filtering.adoc[Numerical operators], the `Point` type has an additional `_DISTANCE` filter. All of the filters take the following type as an argument:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
input PointDistance {
    point: Point!
    distance: Float!
}
----

In essence, each of the filters mean the following:

* `_LT`: Checks that the specified `point` field is less than the `distance` away in meters from the `Point` being compared against.
* `_LTE`: Checks that the specified `point` field is less than or equal to the `distance` away in meters from the `Point` being compared against.
* `_DISTANCE`: Checks that the specified `point` field is the exact `distance` away in meters from the `Point` being compared against.
* `_GTE`: Checks that the specified `point` field is greater than the `distance` away in meters from the `Point` being compared against.
* `_GT`: Checks that the specified `point` field is greater than or equal to the `distance` away in meters from the `Point` being compared against.

In practice, you can construct queries such as the following which will find all users within a 5km (5000m) radius of a `Point`:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
query CloseByUsers($longitude: Float!, $latitude: Float!) {
    users(where: { location_LTE: { point: { longitude: $longitude, latitude: $latitude }, distance: 5000 } }) {
        name
        location {
            longitude
            latitude
        }
    }
}
----

[[type-definitions-types-cartesian-point]]
=== `CartesianPoint`

The `CartesianPoint` type is used to describe the two https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/syntax/spatial/#cypher-spatial-crs-cartesian[Cartesian coordinate reference systems] supported by Neo4j.

In order to use it in your schema, you quite simply add a field with a type `CartesianPoint` to any type or types in schema, like the following:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type TypeWithCartesianPoint {
    location: CartesianPoint!
}
----

Once this has been done, the `CartesianPoint` type will be automatically added to your schema, in addition to all of the input and output types you will need to query and manipulate spatial types through your API.

The rest of the documentation under this heading is documenting all of those automatically generated types and how to use them.

==== Type definition

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type CartesianPoint {
    x: Float!
    y: Float!
    z: Float
}
----

==== Queries and Mutations

Due to the fact that `CartesianPoint` is an object type, it has an additional type for input in queries and mutations. However, this input type has the same shape as the object type:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
input CartesianPointInput {
    x: Float!
    y: Float!
    z: Float
}
----

==== Filtering

In addition to the xref::filtering.adoc[Numerical operators], the `CartesianPoint` type has an additional `_DISTANCE` filter. All of the filters take the following type as an argument:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
input CartesianPointDistance {
    point: CartesianPoint!
    distance: Float!
}
----

In essence, each of the filters mean the following:

* `_LT`: Checks that the specified `point` field is less than the `distance` away from the `CartesianPoint` being compared against, in the units used to specify the points.
* `_LTE`: Checks that the specified `point` field is less than or equal to the `distance` away from the `CartesianPoint` being compared against, in the units used to specify the points.
* `_DISTANCE`: Checks that the specified `point` field is the exact `distance` away from the `CartesianPoint` being compared against, in the units used to specify the points.
* `_GTE`: Checks that the specified `point` field is greater than the `distance` away from the `CartesianPoint` being compared against, in the units used to specify the points.
* `_GT`: Checks that the specified `point` field is greater than or equal to the `distance` away from the `CartesianPoint` being compared against, in the units used to specify the points.
