packages/graphql/tests/tck/tck-test-files/cypher-connect.md, before:

## Cypher Connect

Tests connect operations.

Schema:

```schema
type Product {
    id: ID!
    name: String
    sizes: [Size] @relationship(type: "HAS_SIZE", direction: "OUT")
    colors: [Color] @relationship(type: "HAS_COLOR", direction: "OUT")
    photos: [Photo] @relationship(type: "HAS_PHOTO", direction: "OUT")
}

type Size {
    id: ID!
    name: String!
}

type Color {
    id: ID!
    name: String!
    photos: [Photo] @relationship(type: "OF_COLOR", direction: "IN")
}

type Photo {
    id: ID!
    description: String!
    url: String!
    color: Color @relationship(type: "OF_COLOR", direction: "OUT")
}
```

---

### Recursive Connect

**GraphQL input**

```graphql
mutation {
    createProducts(
        input: [
            {
                id: "123"
                name: "Nested Connect"
                colors: {
                    connect: [
                        {
                            where: { name: "Red" }
                            connect: {
                                photos: [
                                    {
                                        where: { id: "123" }
                                        connect: {
                                            color: { where: { id: "134" } }
                                        }
                                    }
                                ]
                            }
                        }
                    ]
                }
                photos: {
                    connect: [
                        {
                            where: { id: "321" }
                            connect: { color: { where: { name: "Green" } } }
                        }
                        {
                            where: { id: "33211" }
                            connect: { color: { where: { name: "Red" } } }
                        }
                    ]
                }
            }
        ]
    ) {
        products {
            id
        }
    }
}
```

**Expected Cypher output**

```cypher
CALL {
  CREATE (this0:Product)
  SET this0.id = $this0_id
  SET this0.name = $this0_name

  WITH this0
  OPTIONAL MATCH (this0_colors_connect0:Color)
  WHERE this0_colors_connect0.name = $this0_colors_connect0_name
  FOREACH(_ IN CASE this0_colors_connect0 WHEN NULL THEN [] ELSE [1] END |
      MERGE (this0)-[:HAS_COLOR]->(this0_colors_connect0)
  )

      WITH this0, this0_colors_connect0
      OPTIONAL MATCH (this0_colors_connect0_photos0:Photo)
      WHERE this0_colors_connect0_photos0.id = $this0_colors_connect0_photos0_id
      FOREACH(_ IN CASE this0_colors_connect0_photos0 WHEN NULL THEN [] ELSE [1] END |
          MERGE (this0_colors_connect0)<-[:OF_COLOR]-(this0_colors_connect0_photos0)
      )

          WITH this0, this0_colors_connect0, this0_colors_connect0_photos0
          OPTIONAL MATCH (this0_colors_connect0_photos0_color0:Color)
          WHERE this0_colors_connect0_photos0_color0.id = $this0_colors_connect0_photos0_color0_id
          FOREACH(_ IN CASE this0_colors_connect0_photos0_color0 WHEN NULL THEN [] ELSE [1] END |
              MERGE (this0_colors_connect0_photos0)-[:OF_COLOR]->(this0_colors_connect0_photos0_color0)
          )

  WITH this0
  OPTIONAL MATCH (this0_photos_connect0:Photo)
  WHERE this0_photos_connect0.id = $this0_photos_connect0_id
  FOREACH(_ IN CASE this0_photos_connect0 WHEN NULL THEN [] ELSE [1] END |
      MERGE (this0)-[:HAS_PHOTO]->(this0_photos_connect0)
  )

      WITH this0, this0_photos_connect0
      OPTIONAL MATCH (this0_photos_connect0_color0:Color)
      WHERE this0_photos_connect0_color0.name = $this0_photos_connect0_color0_name
      FOREACH(_ IN CASE this0_photos_connect0_color0 WHEN NULL THEN [] ELSE [1] END |
          MERGE (this0_photos_connect0)-[:OF_COLOR]->(this0_photos_connect0_color0)
      )

  WITH this0
  OPTIONAL MATCH (this0_photos_connect1:Photo)
  WHERE this0_photos_connect1.id = $this0_photos_connect1_id
  FOREACH(_ IN CASE this0_photos_connect1 WHEN NULL THEN [] ELSE [1] END |
      MERGE (this0)-[:HAS_PHOTO]->(this0_photos_connect1)
  )

      WITH this0, this0_photos_connect1
      OPTIONAL MATCH (this0_photos_connect1_color0:Color)
      WHERE this0_photos_connect1_color0.name = $this0_photos_connect1_color0_name
      FOREACH(_ IN CASE this0_photos_connect1_color0 WHEN NULL THEN [] ELSE [1] END |
          MERGE (this0_photos_connect1)-[:OF_COLOR]->(this0_photos_connect1_color0)
      )

  RETURN this0
}

RETURN
this0 { .id } AS this0
```

**Expected Cypher params**

```cypher-params
{
  "this0_id": "123",
  "this0_name": "Nested Connect",
  "this0_colors_connect0_name": "Red",
  "this0_colors_connect0_photos0_id": "123",
  "this0_colors_connect0_photos0_color0_id": "134",
  "this0_photos_connect0_id": "321",
  "this0_photos_connect0_color0_name": "Green",
  "this0_photos_connect1_id": "33211",
  "this0_photos_connect1_color0_name": "Red"
}
```

---

Commit message:

refactor: put all params in one object

packages/graphql/tests/tck/tck-test-files/cypher-connect.md, after:

## Cypher Connect

Tests connect operations.

Schema:

```schema
type Product {
    id: ID!
    name: String
    sizes: [Size] @relationship(type: "HAS_SIZE", direction: "OUT")
    colors: [Color] @relationship(type: "HAS_COLOR", direction: "OUT")
    photos: [Photo] @relationship(type: "HAS_PHOTO", direction: "OUT")
}

type Size {
    id: ID!
    name: String!
}

type Color {
    id: ID!
    name: String!
    photos: [Photo] @relationship(type: "OF_COLOR", direction: "IN")
}

type Photo {
    id: ID!
    description: String!
    url: String!
    color: Color @relationship(type: "OF_COLOR", direction: "OUT")
}
```

---

### Recursive Connect

**GraphQL input**

```graphql
mutation {
    createProducts(
        input: [
            {
                id: "123"
                name: "Nested Connect"
                colors: {
                    connect: [
                        {
                            where: { name: "Red" }
                            connect: {
                                photos: [
                                    {
                                        where: { id: "123" }
                                        connect: {
                                            color: { where: { id: "134" } }
                                        }
                                    }
                                ]
                            }
                        }
                    ]
                }
                photos: {
                    connect: [
                        {
                            where: { id: "321" }
                            connect: { color: { where: { name: "Green" } } }
                        }
                        {
                            where: { id: "33211" }
                            connect: { color: { where: { name: "Red" } } }
                        }
                    ]
                }
            }
        ]
    ) {
        products {
            id
        }
    }
}
```

**Expected Cypher output**

```cypher
CALL {
  CREATE (this0:Product)
  SET this0.id = $params.this0_id
  SET this0.name = $params.this0_name

  WITH this0
  OPTIONAL MATCH (this0_colors_connect0:Color)
  WHERE this0_colors_connect0.name = $params.this0_colors_connect0_name
  FOREACH(_ IN CASE this0_colors_connect0 WHEN NULL THEN [] ELSE [1] END |
      MERGE (this0)-[:HAS_COLOR]->(this0_colors_connect0)
  )

      WITH this0, this0_colors_connect0
      OPTIONAL MATCH (this0_colors_connect0_photos0:Photo)
      WHERE this0_colors_connect0_photos0.id = $params.this0_colors_connect0_photos0_id
      FOREACH(_ IN CASE this0_colors_connect0_photos0 WHEN NULL THEN [] ELSE [1] END |
          MERGE (this0_colors_connect0)<-[:OF_COLOR]-(this0_colors_connect0_photos0)
      )

          WITH this0, this0_colors_connect0, this0_colors_connect0_photos0
          OPTIONAL MATCH (this0_colors_connect0_photos0_color0:Color)
          WHERE this0_colors_connect0_photos0_color0.id = $params.this0_colors_connect0_photos0_color0_id
          FOREACH(_ IN CASE this0_colors_connect0_photos0_color0 WHEN NULL THEN [] ELSE [1] END |
              MERGE (this0_colors_connect0_photos0)-[:OF_COLOR]->(this0_colors_connect0_photos0_color0)
          )

  WITH this0
  OPTIONAL MATCH (this0_photos_connect0:Photo)
  WHERE this0_photos_connect0.id = $params.this0_photos_connect0_id
  FOREACH(_ IN CASE this0_photos_connect0 WHEN NULL THEN [] ELSE [1] END |
      MERGE (this0)-[:HAS_PHOTO]->(this0_photos_connect0)
  )

      WITH this0, this0_photos_connect0
      OPTIONAL MATCH (this0_photos_connect0_color0:Color)
      WHERE this0_photos_connect0_color0.name = $params.this0_photos_connect0_color0_name
      FOREACH(_ IN CASE this0_photos_connect0_color0 WHEN NULL THEN [] ELSE [1] END |
          MERGE (this0_photos_connect0)-[:OF_COLOR]->(this0_photos_connect0_color0)
      )

  WITH this0
  OPTIONAL MATCH (this0_photos_connect1:Photo)
  WHERE this0_photos_connect1.id = $params.this0_photos_connect1_id
  FOREACH(_ IN CASE this0_photos_connect1 WHEN NULL THEN [] ELSE [1] END |
      MERGE (this0)-[:HAS_PHOTO]->(this0_photos_connect1)
  )

      WITH this0, this0_photos_connect1
      OPTIONAL MATCH (this0_photos_connect1_color0:Color)
      WHERE this0_photos_connect1_color0.name = $params.this0_photos_connect1_color0_name
      FOREACH(_ IN CASE this0_photos_connect1_color0 WHEN NULL THEN [] ELSE [1] END |
          MERGE (this0_photos_connect1)-[:OF_COLOR]->(this0_photos_connect1_color0)
      )

  RETURN this0
}

RETURN
this0 { .id } AS this0
```

**Expected Cypher params**

```cypher-params
{
  "params": {
    "this0_id": "123",
    "this0_name": "Nested Connect",
    "this0_colors_connect0_name": "Red",
    "this0_colors_connect0_photos0_id": "123",
    "this0_colors_connect0_photos0_color0_id": "134",
    "this0_photos_connect0_id": "321",
    "this0_photos_connect0_color0_name": "Green",
    "this0_photos_connect1_id": "33211",
    "this0_photos_connect1_color0_name": "Red"
  }
}
```

---
