docs/modules/ROOT/pages/auth/authorization/allow.adoc, before:

[[auth-authorization-allow]]
= Allow

Use `allow` to ensure that on matched nodes, there is equality between a value on the JWT and a property on each matched node. Taking a closer look, create two users in a hypothetical empty database:

[source, cypher, indent=0]
----
CREATE (:User { id: "user1", name: "one" })
CREATE (:User { id: "user2", name: "two" })
----

For the label and properties of the nodes created above, the corresponding GraphQL type definition would be:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type User {
    id: ID!
    name: String!
}
----

Now that there are two users in the database, and a simple type definition - it might be desirable to restrict `user1` from accessing `user2`. This is where `allow` comes in:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type User {
    id: ID!
    name: String!
}

extend type User @auth(
    rules: [
        {
            operations: [READ],
            allow: { id: "$jwt.sub" }
        }
    ]
)
----

After a match is made against a node, it is validated that the property `id` on the node is equal to the `jwt.sub` property.

Given `user1` has the following decoded JWT:

[source, json, indent=0]
----
{
    "sub": "user1",
    "iat": 1516239022
}
----

If "user1" used this JWT in a request for "user2":

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
query {
    users(where: { id: "user2" }) {
        name
    }
}
----

The generated cypher for this query would look like the following and throw you out the operation:

[source, cypher, indent=0]
----
MATCH (u:User { id: "user2" })
CALL apoc.util.validate(NOT(u.id = "user1"), "Forbidden")
RETURN u
----

Allow is available on the following operations:

- `READ`
- `UPDATE`
- `CONNECT`
- `DISCONNECT`
- `DELETE`

== `allow` across relationships

There may be a reason where you need to traverse across relationships to satisfy your authorization implementation. One example use case could be "grant update access to all Moderators of a Post":

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type User {
    id: ID
    name: String
}

type Post {
    content: String
    moderators: [User] @relationship(type: "MODERATES_POST", direction: IN)
}

extend type Post @auth(rules: [
    { operations: [UPDATE], allow: { moderators: { id: "$jwt.sub" } } }
])
----

When you specify allow on a relationship you can select fields on the referenced node. It's worth pointing out that allow on a relationship will perform an `ANY` on the matched nodes to see if there is a match.

Given the above example - There may be a time when you need to give update access to either the creator of a post or a moderator, you can use `OR` and `AND` inside `allow`:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type User {
    id: ID
    name: String
}

type Post {
    content: String
    moderators: [User] @relationship(type: "MODERATES_POST", direction: IN)
    creator: User @relationship(type: "HAS_POST", direction: IN)
}

extend type Post
    @auth(
        rules: [
            {
                operations: [UPDATE],
                allow: { OR: [{ moderators: { id: "$jwt.sub" } }, { creator: { id: "$jwt.sub" } }] }
            }
        ]
    )
----

== Field-level `allow`

`allow` works the same as it does on Types although its context is the Field. So instead of enforcing auth rules when the node is matched and/or modified, it would instead be called when the Field is match and/or modified. Given the following, it is hiding the password to all users but the user themselves:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type User {
    id: ID!
    name: String!
    password: String! @auth(rules: [{ allow: { id: "$jwt.sub" } }])
}
----

Commit message:

FEAT: extend auth rules with field modifiers
This pull request adds initial extended support for modifiers on auth clauses.  The API is designed to mimic the interface of the generated GraphQL query/mutation.

For primitives:

Support _NOT, _IN, _NOT_IN

_NOT checks for inequality using <>
_IN checks for membership in a list of values
_NOT_IN checks that the value is not a member of a list of values

For relationships:

Support _NOT, _INCLUDES, _NOT_INCLUDES, _EVERY, _NOT_EVERY

Also add support for a `null` value to check EXISTS()/NOT EXISTS.

_NOT negates the default ANY/ALL, depending on the clause
_ INCLUDES specifies `ANY`
_NOT_INCLUDES specifies `NOT ANY`
_ EVERY specifies `ALL`
_NOT_EVERY specifies `NOT ALL`

Using null as a value for the relationship checks that no edge exists, _NOT: `null` checks that an edge must exist.

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/auth/authorization/allow.adoc, after:

[[auth-authorization-allow]]
= Allow

Use `allow` to ensure that on matched nodes, there is equality between a value on the JWT and a property on each matched node. Taking a closer look, create two users in a hypothetical empty database:

[source, cypher, indent=0]
----
CREATE (:User { id: "user1", name: "one" })
CREATE (:User { id: "user2", name: "two" })
----

For the label and properties of the nodes created above, the corresponding GraphQL type definition would be:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type User {
    id: ID!
    name: String!
}
----

Now that there are two users in the database, and a simple type definition - it might be desirable to restrict `user1` from accessing `user2`. This is where `allow` comes in:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type User {
    id: ID!
    name: String!
}

extend type User @auth(
    rules: [
        {
            operations: [READ],
            allow: { id: "$jwt.sub" }
        }
    ]
)
----

After a match is made against a node, it is validated that the property `id` on the node is equal to the `jwt.sub` property.

Given `user1` has the following decoded JWT:

[source, json, indent=0]
----
{
    "sub": "user1",
    "iat": 1516239022
}
----

If "user1" used this JWT in a request for "user2":

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
query {
    users(where: { id: "user2" }) {
        name
    }
}
----

The generated cypher for this query would look like the following and throw you out the operation:

[source, cypher, indent=0]
----
MATCH (u:User { id: "user2" })
CALL apoc.util.validate(NOT(u.id = "user1"), "Forbidden")
RETURN u
----

Allow is available on the following operations:

- `READ`
- `UPDATE`
- `CONNECT`
- `DISCONNECT`
- `DELETE`

== `allow` across relationships

There may be a reason where you need to traverse across relationships to satisfy your authorization implementation. One example use case could be "grant update access to all Moderators of a Post":

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type User {
    id: ID
    name: String
}

type Post {
    content: String
    moderators: [User] @relationship(type: "MODERATES_POST", direction: IN)
}

extend type Post @auth(rules: [
    { operations: [UPDATE], allow: { moderators: { id: "$jwt.sub" } } }
])
----

When you specify allow on a relationship you can select fields on the referenced node. It's worth pointing out that allow on a relationship will perform an `ANY` on the matched nodes to see if there is a match.

Given the above example - There may be a time when you need to give update access to either the creator of a post or a moderator, you can use `OR` and `AND` inside `allow`:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type User {
    id: ID
    name: String
}

type Post {
    content: String
    moderators: [User] @relationship(type: "MODERATES_POST", direction: IN)
    creator: User @relationship(type: "HAS_POST", direction: IN)
}

extend type Post
    @auth(
        rules: [
            {
                operations: [UPDATE],
                allow: { OR: [{ moderators: { id: "$jwt.sub" } }, { creator: { id: "$jwt.sub" } }] }
            }
        ]
    )
----

== Field modifiers

You can combine fields in `allow` rules with the provided field modifiers to customize the allow rules checked, see the xref::auth/authorization/modifiers.adoc[Modifiers] documentation.

== Field-level `allow`

`allow` works the same as it does on Types although its context is the Field. So instead of enforcing auth rules when the node is matched and/or modified, it would instead be called when the Field is match and/or modified. Given the following, it is hiding the password to all users but the user themselves:

[source, graphql, indent=0]
----
type User {
    id: ID!
    name: String!
    password: String! @auth(rules: [{ allow: { id: "$jwt.sub" } }])
}
----
